The Feud

"I will not fight," said Sampson, "but nobody should insult me if we see any Montagues, they had better be quiet."

"Or what?" asked Gregory.

"I'll kill them all."

"All?" Gregory stopped walking and looked at his friend.

"Every one of them." said Sampson. "If they are Montagues, then I'll fight them if they say something to me."

They began to walk on toward the square.

"What if one of the Montagues' dogs barks at you?" Gregory asked jokingly.

"Then I'd fight with it."

"What about women?"

This time Sampson stopped, as if to think about the question. "It's all the same. If they are Montagues, they are my enemies. And they will know I'm angry. "

"So you'd fight with the women?"

"I didn't say that." Sampson explained. "I said they'd know I'm angry. I'd fight with the men. After beating them, I would be kind to the women."

"You mean you'd charm them? Once the Montague men were gone?"

"Yes. I guess so."

"But that's not really showing them that you're angry. Unless you think charming the women is the same as fighting the men."

"Isn't it?" Sampson answered. "Either way, it's about showing the Montagues who's the boss I'll beat the men with swords, the women with smiles and pretty words. It's all the same."

"I wish it were the same," said Gregory, seeing two servants from the Montague family approaching from across the square. "Then you could just smile and say kind things to these two and be satisfied."

Sampson watched the two men strut through the square. "I can think of nothing kind to say."

The two men began to walk toward Sampson and Gregory, looking at them with angry eyes. They were making nasty remarks among themselves about Sampson and Gregory.

Gregory gave an unnatural smile as the two passed by Sampson did the same, but he could not hold in his hatred. As soon as the men passed, he stuck out his middle finger and went. "AARRRRRRR!"

The men stopped and turned. "Are you giving us the finger, sir?" said one of them.

"Uh." Sampson whispered to Gregory, "is the law on our side if I say 'yes'?"

"No."

"Then, no." stated Sampson.

"But I saw you stick out your finger," said the man named Abraham.

"And I heard you make a noise," said the other named Balthasar.

"Then I stuck out my finger, sir." said Sampson innocently, "and I made a noise. What about it?"

"That's just like a man from the Capulet family, isn't it?" said the other man. "Making rude gestures to honest people. And then too cowardly to confess to it."

"Just like a Capulet," agreed Abraham. "Cowards. Every one of them."

"There's no reason to call anyone a coward," said Gregory.

"I'll show you who's a coward!" said Sampson. As he grabbed his knife, he accidentally pushed Gregory into Abraham.

"You saw that, Balthasar? He attacked me," shouted Abraham.

It was too late to keep the peace.

All four men wrestled in the street. A crowd gathered and began shouting and cheering.

Benvolio, Old Montague's nephew, heard the fighting. He didn't really like the feud between his family and the Capulets. He knew that all this hatred would only result in death, and death in more hatred. But he knew the only way to stop the fighting was to jump between the angry men. Therefore, he drew his sword and ran toward the four men fighting in the square.

"Peace! Put your weapons away!" Benvolio shouted, as he pulled the men off each other.

A tall man walked forward. He pulled out his sword and touched the point.

It was Tybalt, Capulet's nephew, an arrogant man of thirty. He was very arrogant, but he was also the best swordsman in Verona.

"Tybalt," said Benvolio. "Put your sword away. I'm trying to keep the peace Please help me."

"Peace? You stand there with your sword in your hand talking of peace?" Tybalt spoke with a twisted smile.

Benvolio barely had time to defend himself before Tybalt lunged at him.

The crowd cheered again. "Kill the Montagues!" yelled some. "Kill the Capulets!" others yelled. "Kill them all!" yelled more.

"Kill the Capulets?" murmured an old man who was walking out of a nearby church.

It was Capulet, holding on to his young wife's arm, "Give me my sword!"

"Sword?" his wife scolded. "You need a cane, not a sword."

"I know it's Capulet!" Another old man hobbled across the square. It was Montague. "Lead me over to him." he said.

"How can you fight? You can barely walk!" said Lady Montague.

Then the crowd went silent as some horses neared. Escalus, the Prince of Verona, and his soldiers rode toward them. He circled Tybalt and Benvolio. The onlookers hurried off.

"Rebels!" roared the prince. "Throw your weapons to the ground!"

Tybalt and Benvolio did as the prince commanded.

"Now," Escalus said, "where are the people responsible? I'm talking about the two older men, Capulet and Montague." He searched the streets and found the two old men. "You, Capulet, and you, Montague, stand in front of me!"

The two old men came forward.

"You are leaders in this city and are supposed to be moral. But instead of teaching the people how to be noble, you force them to participate in your pointless feud. Well, I've been patient for too long." He drew his sword. "If your feud ever disturbs the streets again, you both will pay for it with your lives! Do you understand?"
